.TH BEOBOOT_CONFIG 5 "" "Beoboot cm1.10" "Beoboot Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
config \- the BProc/Beoboot master configuration file

config\.boot \- the beoboot slave node configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/clustermatic/config

/etc/clustermatic/config.boot

.SH DESCRIPTION
beoserv and the BProc master daemon read their configuration
information from /etc/clustermatic/config.  This file is a plain
text file.  All configuration directives are a single line take the
form of:

\fBtag\fR \fIarguments ...\fR

Comments are shell script style, beginning with # and extending to the
end of the line.  Since several programs and scripts use this
configuration file, the BProc master daemon will only pay attention to
tags it recognizes and ignore all others.

.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
The first item on a configuration line is the \fBtag\fR.  The tag is
case sensitive.  Arguments follow the tag.  Optional argments are
indicated by square brackets.  Do not include the brackets in the
configuration file.
.TP
\fBinterface\fR \fIinterfacename\fR
The \fBinterface\fR command tells beoserv which network interface to
listen on.
.TP
\fBbootfile\fR [\fInodespec\fR] \fIfilename\fR
The \fBbootfile\fR command tells beoserv which boot file to serve to
which nodes in the system.  If \fInodespec\fR is omitted then the
default bootfile is set.  Otherwise the boot file for the nodes in
\fInodepsec\fR is changed.  The \fInodespec\fR is a BProc node
specification.

.SH BOOT IMAGE CONFIGURATION
.PP
\fBconfig.boot\fR is the configuration file included in phase 1 and
phase 2 boot images.  A copy of it is included in the boot images so
those images will need to be recreated any time \fBconfig.boot\fR is
modified.  The following configuration commands are for use in
\fBconfig.boot\fR:
.TP
\fBrarp\fR \fBinitial_delay\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBrarp\fR \fBmax_delay\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBrarp\fR \fBbackoff\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBrarp\fR \fBmax_time\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBrarp\fR \fBrand\fR \fIfactor\fR
The \fBrarp\fR commands control the behavior of the RARP client in
phase 1 and phase 2 boot images.  This configuration command should be
used in \fBconfig.boot\fR before creating the images.  All values are
floating point numbers.

\fBinitial_delay\fR and \fBmax_delay\fR control the initial and
maximum delays between RARP requests.  After each request the delay is
multiplied by \fBbackoff\fR.  \fBbackoff\fR must be greater than 1.0.
Each time a new delay is calculated a random factor is added to the
delay.  The size of the random factor is controlled by \fBrand\fR.
\fBrand must be between 0.0 and 1.0.  \fBmax_time\fR is the maximum
total time that the slave node will wait for a RARP response.
.TP
\fBmodarg\fR \fImodulename\fR \fIoptions ...\fR
The \fBmodarg\fR command specifies a set of module arguments used when
loading the specified module.
.TP
\fBinsmod\fR \fImodulename\fR \fIoptions ...\fR
.TP
\fBmodprobe\fR \fImodulename\fR \fIoptions ...\fR
The \fBinsmod\fR and \fBmodprobe\fR commands are equivalent.  They
cause the named module to be loaded with the specified options.  If no
options are given and there is a modarg line with options, those will
be used instead.
.TP
\fBphase\fR \fInumber\fR \fIconfig line\fR
The \fBphase\fR prefix causes a particular configuration option to be
used only in a particular phase of slave node boot up.  There are two
phases (numbered 1 and 2).  Phase 1 is boot-up kernel which downloads
the operation kernel from the master node.  Phase 2 is everything in
the second kernel + initrd image.

.SH NODE SETUP CONFIGURATION
.PP
Normally beoserv listens for node setup requests and runs the node
setup program on a group of nodes once enough requests have been
received.  The following options control the group node setup behavior.
.TP
\fBnode_up\fR \fBmax_clients\fR \fInumber\fR
\fBnode_up\fR \fBmax_clients\fR sets the maximum group size for node
setup.  Once beoserv receives \fInumber\fR node setup requests, it
will start setting up a group of nodes immediately.  The default value
is 256.  Larger values are not recommended due to limitations on the
number of open file descriptors.
.TP
\fBnode_up\fR \fBstartup_delay\fR \fIseconds\fR
\fBnode_up\fR \fBstartup_delay\fR controls how long beoserv will wait
to get a full group of nodes.  Beoserv will start setting up nodes
after \fIseconds\fR after the last node setup request.  The default value
is 1.5 seconds.
.TP
\fBnode_up\fR \fBlisten_path\fR \fIpath\fR Beoserv listens for node
setup requests on a UNIX domain socket.  \fIpath\fR controls where the
socket is created.  The default value is \fB/tmp/.node_up\fR.
.TP
\fBnode_up\fR \fBlog_level\fR \fIlevel\fR
\fBnode_up\fR \fBlog_level\fR \fIlevel\fR controls the how much
logging node_up will do while setting up the node.  Possible values
are \fBfatal\fR, \fBerror\fR, \fBwarning\fR, \fBinfo\fR and
\fBdebug\fR.  \fBfatal\fR will log only fatal errors, \fBerror\fR will
log any werrors including those which are not fatal and so on.  The
default value is \fBinfo\fR.

.SH BOOT FILE RECEIVE CONFIGURATION
.PP
These configuration options control the boot image download client
used by phase 1 boot images.  These configuration directives should be
placed in \fBconfig.boot\fR.  The phase 1 boot image will have to be
rebuilt (see \fBbeoboot\fR(8)) after changing any of these.
.TP
\fBrecv\fR \fBinitial_delay\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBrecv\fR \fBmax_delay\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBrecv\fR \fBbackoff\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBrecv\fR \fBmax_time\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBrecv\fR \fBrand\fR \fIfactor\fR
\fBinitial_delay\fR and \fBmax_delay\fR control the initial and
maximum delays between file requests.  After each request the delay is
multiplied by \fBbackoff\fR.  \fBbackoff\fR must be greater than 1.0.
Each time a new delay is calculated a random factor is added to the
delay.  The size of the random factor is controlled by \fBrand\fR.
\fBrand must be between 0.0 and 1.0.  \fBmax_time\fR is the maximum
total time that the slave node will try to download the file.

.SH BOOT FILE SENDER CONFIGURATION
.PP
.TP
\fBsend\fR \fBport\fR \fIport\fR
.TP
\fBsend\fR \fBconnect_timeout\fR \fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBsend\fR \fBresend_timeout\fR \fIseconds\fR
\fBresend_timeout\fR controls how long a client will wait around and
act as a resender for the boot image.  The default value is 5 seconds.
.TP
\fBsend\fR \fBio_timeout\fR \fIseconds\fR

.TP
\fBbprocport\fR \fIportnumber\fR
The \fBbprocport\fR command tells the BProc master daemon which TCP
port it should listen on for connections from slave machines.  Only
one \fBbprocport\fR command is allowed.  The master daemon will
listen on this port on all interfaces.  See \fBinterface\fR.

.TP
\fBinterface\fR \fIinterfacename\fR \fIIPaddress\fR \fInetmask\fR
The \fBinterface\fR command tells the BProc master daemon and the
beoserv daemon to listen for connections on a particular interface.
If multiple interface lines appear in the file, the daemons will
listen on multiple interfaces.

.TP
\fBip\fR [\fInodenumber\fR] \fIIPaddress ...\fR
The \fBip\fR assigns one or more IP addresses to a single node.  If
the \fInodenumber\fR argument is given, the IP address will be
assigned to that node.  If it is omitted, it will be assigned to the
node following whatever node was assigned last.  If no nodes have been
assigned, assignment will start with node zero.  IP addresses must be
in dotted notation. (ie. 10.0.0.1) No hostnames are allowed.

.TP
\fBiprange\fR [\fInodenumber\fR] \fIIPaddress1\fR \fIIPaddress2\fR
The \fBiprange\fR assigns addresses \fIIPaddress1\fR up to and
including \fIIPaddress2\fR to nodes.  If the \fInodenumber\fR argument
is given, the first address will be assigned to that node, the next
address to the next node and so on.  If the \fInodenumber\fR argument
is omitted, the addresses will be assigned starting with the node
following whatever node was assigned last.  If no nodes have been
assigned, assignment will start with node zero.

.TP
\fBlogfacility\fR \fIfacility\fR
The \fBlogfacility\fR command specificies which log facility the BProc
master daemon should use.  Some valid log facility names are
\fBdaemon\fR, \fBsyslog\fR and \fBlocal0\fR.  See the syslog
documentation for the complete set.  By default \fBdaemon\fR will be
used.

.TP
\fBpingtimeout\fR \fIseconds\fR
The \fBpingtimeout\fR command controls how frequently the BProc
master and slave daemons will ping one another to make sure they're
still alive.  This value is propaged to the slave machines when they
connect to the master.

.SH BUGS
.PP
Since the daemons ignore tags that it doesn't do anything with,
it may ignore tags which are misspelled, invalid, etc.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBbeoboot\fR(8), \fBbeoserv\fR(8)
