.\" $Id: bpmaster.8,v 1.4 2004/09/23 20:11:10 mkdist Exp $
.TH BPMASTER 8 "" "BProc 4.0.0pre8" "BProc Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
bpmaster  \- the BProc master daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBbpmaster\fR \-h

\fBbpmaster\fR \-V

\fBbpmaster\fR [\-dvi] [\-c \fIfile\fR] [\-m \fIfile\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBbpmaster\fR is the BProc master daemon.  It runs on the front end
machine of a cluster running BProc.  It listens on a TCP port and
accepts connections from slave daemons.  Configuration information
comes from the BProc configuration file.  See \fBbproc_config\fR(5)
for more information about the BProc configuration file.

Only a single copy of bpmaster may be run on any machine.
.TP
\-h
Print help information and exit.
.TP
\-V
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\-d
Do not become a daemon.  This will prevent bpmaster from
detaching from its controlling tty and forking into the background.
.TP
\-v
Increase verbose level.  This option is most useful for debugging.
This option may be specified more than once for increased verbosity.
.TP
\-i
Ignore BProc interface version mismatch.  This will cause the
master daemon to ignore BProc version mistmatches between itself and
the loaded kernel modules and betweeen itself and slaves.  (This is
dangerous.)
.TP
\-c \fIfile\fR
Read configuration information from \fIfile\fR instead of the default
(/etc/clustermatic/config).
.TP
\-m \fIfile\fR
Dump a message trace to \fIfile\fR.  This is only good for debugging
BProc.  It will slow the master daemon down significantly and can
quickly consume large amounts of disk space.  Trace files can be
viewed with \fBbptrace\fR(8).

.SH SIGNALS
.PP
\fBbpmaster\fR can be forced to re-read its configuration file without
restarting the system by sending a SIGHUP to bpmaster.  This will also
cause the configuration to be resent to the slave nodes connected to
the system.

Most configuration items including the number of nodes and IP ranges
can be modified with a SIGHUP reconfiguration.  If a connected slave
node does not exist in the new configuration it will be disconnected.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBbproc_config\fR(5),
\fBbpslave\fR(8),
\fBbptrace\fR(8)
