.\" $Id: bproc_config.5,v 1.3 2004/10/01 19:44:48 mkdist Exp $
.TH BPROC_CONFIG 5 "" "BProc 4.0.0pre8" "BProc Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
config \- the BProc master configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/clustermatic/config

.SH DESCRIPTION
The BProc master daemon and beoserv read their configuration
information from /etc/clustermatic/config.  This file is a plain
text file.  All configuration directives are a single line take the
form of:

\fBtag\fR \fIarguments ...\fR

Comments are shell script style, beginning with # and extending to the
end of the line.  Since several programs and scripts use this
configuration file, the BProc master daemon will only pay attention to
tags it recognizes and ignore all others.

.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
The first item on a configuration line is the \fBtag\fR.  The tag is
case sensitive.  Arguments follow the tag.  Optional argments are
indicated by square brackets.  Do not include the brackets in the
configuration file.
.TP
\fBbprocport\fR \fIportnumber\fR
The \fBbprocport\fR command tells the BProc master daemon which TCP
port it should listen on for connections from slave machines.  Only
one \fBbprocport\fR command is allowed.  The master daemon will
listen on this port on all interfaces.  The default value is \fB2223\fR.
.TP
\fBinterface\fR \fIinterfacename\fR
The \fBinterface\fR command tells the BProc master daemon and the
beoserv daemon to listen for connections on a particular interface.
If multiple interface lines appear in the file, the daemons will
listen on multiple interfaces.
.TP
\fBip\fR [\fInodenumber\fR] \fIIPaddress ...\fR
The \fBip\fR assigns one or more IP addresses to a single node.  If
the \fInodenumber\fR argument is given, the IP address will be
assigned to that node.  If it is omitted, it will be assigned to the
node following whatever node was assigned last.  If no nodes have been
assigned, assignment will start with node zero.  IP addresses must be
in dotted notation. (ie. 10.0.0.1) No hostnames are allowed.
.TP
\fBiprange\fR [\fInodenumber\fR] \fIIPaddress1\fR \fIIPaddress2\fR
The \fBiprange\fR assigns addresses \fIIPaddress1\fR up to and
including \fIIPaddress2\fR to nodes.  If the \fInodenumber\fR argument
is given, the first address will be assigned to that node, the next
address to the next node and so on.  If the \fInodenumber\fR argument
is omitted, the addresses will be assigned starting with the node
following whatever node was assigned last.  If no nodes have been
assigned, assignment will start with node zero.
.TP
\fBlogfacility\fR \fIfacility\fR
The \fBlogfacility\fR command specificies which log facility the BProc
master daemon should use.  Some valid log facility names are
\fBdaemon\fR, \fBsyslog\fR and \fBlocal0\fR.  See the syslog
documentation for the complete set.  By default \fBdaemon\fR will be
used.
.TP
\fBmaster\fR \fIhostname\fB[:\fIport\fB]\fR \fI...\fR
The \fBmaster\fR command lists the addresses for master nodes in the
system.  These lists of addresses will be sent to slave nodes so that
they will find all the master nodes in the system.  There should be
exactly one \fBmaster\fR line for every master node in the system.
Each \fBmaster\fR can have more than one address.  Slave nodes will
attempt to connect to each address on the list in order.  It is
acceptable for a master node to have a line for itself.  This should
be a no-op since the slave should see that it is already connected to
that master.
.TP
\fBpingtimeout\fR \fIseconds\fR
The \fBpingtimeout\fR command controls how frequently the BProc
master and slave daemons will ping one another to make sure they're
still alive.  This value is propaged to the slave machines when they
connect to the master.  The default value is 30 seconds.
.TP
\fBslave\fR \fBtimesync\fR \fIyes\fR|\fIno\fR
If \fBslave\fR \fBtimesync\fR is set to \fByes\fR then the master
daemon will include time stamps in the BProc ping messages.  The slave
daemons will use these time stamps to keep the slave daemon reasonably
synchronized with the master node.  The default value is \fByes\fR.
.TP
\fBslave\fR \fBprivatefs\fR \fIyes\fR|\fIno\fR
If the \fBslave\fR \fBprivatefs\fR flag is set to \fByes\fR.  Then the
slave daemon will create a private file system namespace for itself.
The root file system will be a \fItmpfs\fR file system.  It and
everything under it will be automatically unmounted when the slave is
disconnected from the master.  The default value is \fBno\fR.

.SH BUGS
.PP
Since the master daemon ignores tags that it doesn't do anything with,
it may ignore tags which are misspelled, invalid, etc.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbpmaster\fR(8)
