.\" $Id: bproc_ioforwarding.2,v 1.1 2004/09/08 20:28:44 mkdist Exp $
.TH BPROC_IOFORWARDING 2 "" "BProc 4.0.0pre8" "BProc Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
bproc_iofowarding \- BProc I/O forwarding facilities

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When a process moves to a remote node it loses all its open files.  In
cases where a single remote process is created, that process's STDOUT
and STDERR will be combined and connected to whatever STDOUT was on
the calling process.  This is basically a hack 

NOTE: If STDOUT is connected to a tty, it won't appear to be to the
remote process.  This will affect things like the standard C library
I/O routines which buffer differently based on what they're connected
to.

BProc provies a facility to setup file descriptors for the remote
process after migration is complete.  This is passed in as a list of
file descriptors and what to connect them to.  Each descriptor is
described by a \fBstruct bproc_io_t\fR.  The structure is defined as
follows:

.nf
struct bproc_io_t {
    int fd;
    short type;
    short flags;
    union {
        struct sockaddr addr;
        struct {
            int   flags;
            int   mode;
            long  offset;
            char  name[256];
        } file;
    } d;
};
.fi

The \fBbproc_move\fR, \fBbproc_rfork\fR, \fBbproc_vrfork\fR,
\fBbproc_execmove\fR and \fBbproc_vexecmove\fR calls have \fB_io\fR
variants which take a list of \fBstruct bproc_io_t\fR structures.

The \fBfd\fR member is the file descriptor number that the open file
will be placed on.  The \fBtype\fR member must be one of the following:

.TP
.B BPROC_IO_FILE
Connect the file descriptor to a file.  The file is opened using the
open syscall.  The \fBd.name\fR member is the file name to be opened.
The \fBd.flags\fR and \fBd.mode\fR members are the flags and mode
arguments to the open system call.  If \fBd.offset\fR is non-zero,
BProc will use lseek(2) to seek to that position in the file.

Note that it's possible to open files which are not regular files
(e.g. /dev/null or /dev/console) and it's possible to create new files
on the remote node with O_CREAT.
.TP
.B BPROC_IO_SOCKET
Connect the file descriptor to a socket.  The address to stored in
\fBd.addr\fR.

.PP
The \fBflags\fR 

.TP
.B BPROC_IO_SEND_INFO



.PP
blah



.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBopen\fR(2),
\fBlseek\fR(2),
\fBbproc_execmove\fR(2),
\fBbproc_vexecmove\fR(2)


