.\" $Id: bproc.1,v 1.1 2004/09/08 20:28:44 mkdist Exp $
.TH BPROC 1 "" "BProc 4.0.0pre8" "BProc Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
bproc \- Beowulf Distributed Process Space

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP

The Beowulf Distributed Process Space (BProc) is a set of Linux kernel
modifications which provides a single system image and process
migration facilities for processes running in a Beowulf style cluster.
With BProc, all the processes running in a cluster are visible on the
cluster front end machine and are controllable via existing UNIX
process control mechanisms.  Process creation is done on the front end
machine and the processes are placed on the nodes where they will run
with BProc's process migration mechanism.

This manual page is an index of other BProc documentation.

.\" We should have a section of concepts here as well for migration, etc.

.SH PROGRAMS
.PP

.TP
bpsh
run a command on a remote node
.TP
bpcp
copy a file to or from a remote node
.TP
bpstat
get system information
.TP
bpctl
control or configure nodes
.TP
bplib
view or edit BProc's library list
.PP

.SH DAEMONS
.PP
.TP
bpmaster
The BProc master daemon.  This allows one machine to export a piece of
its process space to another running the BProc slave daemon.
.TP
bproc_config
Configuration reference for bpmaster.
.TP
bpslave
The BProc slave daemon.  This allows a machine to accept processes
from another machine.

.SH C LIBRARY INTERFACE
.PP
.TP
bproc_access
determine whether a node can be accessed
.TP
bproc_chgrp
change node group ownership
.TP
bproc_chmod
change the permissions on a node
.TP
bproc_chown 
change node ownership
.TP
bproc_currnode 
return the node the calling process is running on
.TP
bproc_execmove
move a newly execed process to another node
.TP
bproc_masteraddr
return the address of the master node
.TP
bproc_move
move the calling process to another node
.TP
bproc_nodeaddr 
return the address of a node
.TP
bproc_nodecachepurgefail
flush file cache failure list
.TP
bproc_nodecachepurgeok
flush successful downloads from file cache
.TP
bproc_nodechroot
ask a slave daemon to perform a chroot
.TP
bproc_nodehalt
ask a slave daemon to halt the machine
.TP
bproc_nodeinfo
get status information for single node
.TP
bproc_nodelist
get status information for all the nodes
.TP
bproc_nodenumber 
get the node number corresponding to an address
.TP
bproc_nodepwroff
ask a slave daemon to power off the machine
.TP
bproc_nodereboot 
ask a slave daemon to reboot the machine
.TP
bproc_nodesetstatus
set status of a node
.TP
bproc_nodestatus
get the status of a node
.TP
bproc_notifier
get BProc notifier file descriptor
.TP
bproc_numnodes
get the number of nodes in the system
.TP
bproc_pidnode
return the node that a process exists on
.TP
bproc_proclist
get process information for single node
.TP
bproc_requestfile
request a file through the BProc file cache interface
.TP
bproc_rfork
fork a child onto a remote node
.TP
bproc_version
get BProc version information
.PP
