.\" $Id: bpsh.1,v 1.1 2004/09/08 20:28:44 mkdist Exp $
.TH BPSH 1 "" "BProc 4.0.0pre8" "BProc User's Manual"
.SH NAME
bpsh \- run a command on a remote node

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbpsh\fR \-h

\fBbpsh\fR \-v

\fBbpsh\fR \fInodespec\fR \fIcommand\fR \fIarguments ...\fR

\fBbpsh\fR \-a \fIcommand\fR \fIarguments ...\fR

\fBbpsh\fR \-A \fIcommand\fR \fIarguments ...\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBbpsh\fR executes \fIcommand\fR on the nodes given
by \fInodespec\fR.  \fBbpsh\fR is designed to operate in a fashion
similar to \fBrsh\fR.

The node specification can be any comma delimited combination of the
following:
.TP
numbers
e.g. 5, 11, 10
.TP
node ranges
e.g.  5\-10 means 5,6,7,8,9 and 10
.TP
node states prefixed with "all"
e.g.  "allup" means all nodes which are up and "allnotup" means all nodes which are not up.
.PP
Listing the same node more than once will cause the command to get
executed on that node more than once.  The remote commands will be
executed on the nodes in the order given.

.TP
\-h
Print help information and exit.
.TP
\-v
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\-a
Execute \fIcommand\fR on all nodes which are up.  This is
equivalent to saying \fBbpsh\fR allup \fIcommand\fR ... .
.TP
\-A
Execute \fIcommand\fR on all nodes which are not down.  This
is equivalent to saying \fBbpsh\fR allnotdown \fIcommand\fR.
.TP
\-n
Redirect standard in from /dev/null.
.TP
\-N
Provide no IO forwarding at all.  If only one remote process
is starting, this will cause \fBbpsh\fR to do a \fBbproc_execmove\fR
without forking.
.TP
\-L
Line buffer output from remote processes.
.TP
\-p
Prefix each line of output from remote processes with the
node number.  This option implies \-L.
.TP
\-s
Show the output from each remote process sequentially.
.TP
\-d
Print a divider with the node number between the output from
each remote process.  This option implies \-s.
.TP
\-b \fIbufferbytes\fR
Set IO buffer size to \fIbufferbytes\fR.
This affects the maximum line length for line buffered
IO. (default=4096)
.TP
\-I \fIfilename\fR
Redirect standard in from \fIfilename\fR.
This redirection will take place on the remote node.
.TP
\-O \fIfilename\fR
Redirect standard out to \fIfilename\fR.
This redirection will take place on the remote node.
.TP
\-E \fIfilename\fR
Redirect standard error to \fIfilename\fR.
This redirection will take place on the remote node.

.PP
The binary that \fBbpsh\fR is to execute remotely is taken from the
front end and executed remotely via the \fBbproc_execmove\fR function.
The implications of this are that while the binary does not have to be
available on the remote machine, any libraries that it will try to
dynamically link against do have to exist on the remote node.  The
dynamic linker will notify you of missing libraries in the usual way.

.SH BUGS
.PP
\fBbpsh\fR currently does not print any error message if the
exec part of \fBbproc_execmove\fR succeeds but the
\fBbproc_move\fR part fails.  Exit status is set correctly.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBbpcp\fR(1),
\fBbpstat\fR(1)


