.\" $Id: bpslave.8,v 1.3 2004/09/23 20:11:11 mkdist Exp $
.TH BPSLAVE 8 "" "BProc 4.0.0pre8" "BProc Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
bpslave \- the BProc slave daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbpslave\fR \-h

\fBbpslave\fR \-V

\fBbpslave\fR [ options ] \fImaster_address\fR \fImaster_port\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBbpslave\fR is the BProc slave daemon.  The slave daemon
connects to a BProc master daemon and receives processes from the
master.

The BProc slave daemon is also available as a library named
libbpslave.a.  This is provided as a convenience for boot
systems which like to create busy\-box type binaries.

Multiple slave daemons may be run on a single machine.
.TP
\-h
Print help information and exit.
.TP
\-V
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\-v
Increase verbose level.  This option may be specified
more than once for increased verbosity.
.TP
\-d
Do not become a daemon.  This will prevent bpslave from
detaching from its controlling tty and forking into the background.
.TP
\-e
Log to standard error.  Note that \-d and \-v together imply \-e.
.TP
\-l \fIlogfacility\fR
Log messages using \fIlogfacility\fR.  The default is \fBdaemon\fR.
.TP
\-i
Ignore BProc interface version mismatch.  This will cause the
slave daemon to ignore BProc version mistmatches between itself and
the loaded kernel modules and betweeen itself and the master.  (This
is dangerous.)
.TP
\-r
Enable auto-reconnect.  This will cause the slave daemon to
automatically retry a master if the connection to that master is lost.
.TP
\-s \fIaddress\fR
When connecting to the master daemon bind to \fIaddress\fR locally.
.TP
\-m \fIfile\fR
Dump a message trace to \fIfile\fR.  This is
only good for debugging BProc and it will slow the slave daemon
down.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBbpmaster\fR(8)
