.\" $Id: bpstat.1,v 1.4 2004/09/14 17:22:04 mkdist Exp $
.TH BPSTAT 1 "" "BProc 4.0.0pre8" "BProc User's Manual"
.SH NAME
bpstat \- display machine status

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbpstat\fR \-h

\fBbpstat\fR \-V

\fBbpstat\fR \fInodespec ...\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBbpstat\fR displays information about one or more nodes in the cluster.

\fBbpstat\fR can only be used on the master node.

The node specification can be any comma delimited combination of the
following:
.TP
numbers
e.g. 5, 11, 10
.TP
node ranges
e.g.  5\-10 means 5,6,7,8,9 and 10
.TP
node states prefixed with "all"
e.g.  "allup" means all nodes which are up and "allnotup" means all nodes which are not up.

.PP
General options:
.TP
\-h
Print help information and exit.
.TP
\-V
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\-c, \-\-compact
Display a compact listing of nodes.  This is the default.
.TP
\-l, \-\-long
Display a long listing nodes.  This listing has
one line per node showing more information than the compact listing.
.TP
\-a, \-\-address
Print the address of each node.
.TP
\-s, \-\-status
Print the status of each node.
.TP
\-n, \-\-number
Print the node number of each node.
.TP
\-t, \-\-total
Just print the total number of nodes.

.PP
Sorting flags:
.TP
\-R, \-\-sort\-reverse
Reverse the sort order.
.TP
\-S, \-\-sort\-status
Sort nodes by node status.
.TP
\-N, \-\-sort\-number
Sort nodes by node number.
.TP
\-O, \-\-keep\-order
Do not sort the node list.

.PP
Misc options:
.TP
\-U, \-\-update
Continuously update node status display.
.TP
\-L, \-\-lock
locked mode for running on an unattended terminal.
.TP
\-p
Display remote process state.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBbpsh\fR(1),
\fBbpctl\fR(8)
